# Study on the influence of water diversion in the west route of the south-to-north water diversion on the power generation of the cascade power plants in the upper reaches of the Jinsha River. 
In order to solve the problem of water shortage, the implementation of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project, which is to divert water from the Yangtze River Basin, will alleviate the shortage of water resources in the north to a certain extent, but it will inevitably cause changes in the hydrological situation of the river below the water intake in the water transfer area and reduce cascade power generation in water transfer areas. The water diversion plan of the west route of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project will draw water from the Dadu River, the Yalong River and the Jinsha River. This paper mainly focuses on the west route project of water diversion from the Jinsha River and the impact of the power generation capacity of the power station after water intake from Yebatan Reservoir in the upper reaches of Jinsha River. According to the planning parameters of the cascade power station, a mid and long-term optimal scheduling model of cascade power is established with a period of years and a unit of month. Three typical years of wet years, normal years and dry years are selected by the hydrological frequency adaptation software, and the measured inflow of the three typical years selected from the above is used as the model input. The power generation capacity and power generation structure of the hydropower station are compared and analyzed by using Progressive Optimality Algorithm. According to the results obtained by programming, in the three typical years of wet year, normal year and dry year, water transfer has the greatest impact on dry year. In each typical year, the impact of water transfer on the dry season is greater than that in the wet season. After optimization, the optimization effect of the wet season after water transfer in each typical year is remarkable compared with the dry season, and the power generation significantly increased compared with that before optimization.
